README file for the in-process Homework Database

1 February 2010

This file accompanies 5 other files that constitute this distribution:
1. hwdb.tar - all of the source files and a Makefile for constructing
              hwdbserver, hwdbclient, sniff, and flowmonitor
2. srpc.tar - additional source files for exercising the simple RPC subsystem
3. srpc.pdf - design note for the simple RPC subsystem
4. hwdb.pdf - design note for the homework stream database system
5. periodic.pdf - design note for periodic client apps using hwdb, such as
                  flowmonitor

To build the system, do the following:
a. create a directory to hold the system, usually called "hwdb", and cd to it
b. copy hwdb.tar into that directory
c. tar xvf hwdb.tar
d. make
e. in one terminal window, invoke "./hwdbserver -c hwdb.rc"
f. in another terminal window, invoke "sudo ./sniff"
g. in yet another window, invoke "./flowmonitor" - this will simply report
   to you the number of flow records retrieved from the database in the last
   5 seconds
h. if the hostname for the router is "a.b.c.d", then you can invoke the flow
   monitor on any other connected host by invoking "./flowmonitor -h a.b.c.d"

This code has been successfully built under CYGWIN on 32 bit systems, linux on
32 bit systems, and linux on 64 bit systems.  sniff requires that PCAP has
been installed on the linux systems; sniff is not built on CYGWIN systems.
sniff is the last application constructed, so if you are building on a system
where PCAP has not been installed, then all of the other applications should
build correctly before make fails when attempting to compile sniff.c.

The code has been exercised for 48 hours on our wireless router, with a
synthetic load of HTTP traffic over the wireless medium.  sniff inserted all
flow records without error during that time, while another client, on another
node in the network, was busy inserting tuples into a different table.  Two
flow monitors, one running on a 32bit linux system, the other on a 64bit linux
system, successfully monitored the flow records in the database during the
entire test period.

If you wish to further exercise the RPC system, perform the following commands,
again assuming that your current directory is the hwdb directory:
a. copy srpc.tar into the current directory
b. tar xvf srpc.tar
c. make -f Makefile.srpc
d. fire up ./echoserver
e. exercise the server using echoclient, sinkclient, sgenclient, and mthclient
f. callbackserver and callbackclient exercise the ability for a server
   to call back a client

If problems, please report them to joe@dcs.gla.ac.uk and koliousa@dcs.gla.ac.uk.

Joe
